Ohmcoin: Donation Platform Rewarding Kindness, Creation, and Innovation

The Ohm Project
www.ohmcoin.org

Abstract: The main objective of Ohm Coin is to create positive change in the world by seeking out, rewarding, and offering real-world acts of kindness (giving donation). We purpose achieving this by using the technological platform of a versatile, open source, peer-to-peer cryptocurrency as the mechanism for delivery. This will keep donations transparent, ledgered, and non-bias to the greatest degree. In addition, we propose an implementation of networking nodes (Masternode/Karmanodes), distributed around the world, and offered to everyone who is willing to participate.
A governance structure entirely decentralized is being developed enabling a peer-to-peer voting network. This will allow everyone who use OHMC as a currency to vote on the blockchain for an important acts of kindness, or open sourced technological innovations.

As the ecosystems develop that reward abundance and giving, as opposed to taking scarcities in our current Fiat currency models, it is suggested that we can design a more emergent social structure. The Ohm Project’s intention is to create a currency with a value associated to it, not by digital scarcity, but driven by the need for acts of kindness and the desire to fulfill them. Rewarding the act of giving to a greater purpose of human development is of the utmost importance for the future survival of our species. The Ohm Coin project’s goal is to engineer a transition with blockchain technology into a more harmonic type of social design.

Introduction: What is the meaning of value? What gives a currency its value, or anything for that matter? Is it a matter of necessity or perception? Or perhaps it is both? Why does digital scarcity generate any tangible value with nothing more than supply and demand. How does the implementation of an engineered design become accepted as currency and what effects do they have on our socio-economic design?

Humans are subject to a list of physiological and psychological needs that have to be met on an individual basis. Our Primary needs being that of food, shelter, water, and happiness. Money is just an interference between what people need and what they are able to purchase.

Our current social structure functions under the principle of scarcity and uses money as a medium of exchange. This produces a base for social problems as people have different physiological and psychological needs but it is essentially their purchasing power that decides to what degrees these needs could be met.

Interest bearing debt from fiat currency is another contributing factor in where money is minted and lent to countries in accordance with being in a debtor/creditor contract. This ensures that we are in a constant state of competition with one another and encourages behaviors of separation from natural laws. Laws that are based upon principle and truth inherent to all creation. Natural law which is eternally immutable for as long as the universe has and will exist. Creation and giving are the fundamental operators which we all take part in. This seems to be progression of the universe with its established engineered design from which we do not know its origin completely.

With the advent of open source cryptocurrency, we now have new options available for peer-to-peer economic activities that differ from the current means of socioeconomic operation. With the questions we have stated above, we have come up with a design that can ensure a non-bias donation platform that has lasting implications to the nature of exchanging goods and services.

Ohm Coin Organization Origin:

Ohm was founded as a discussion on the chat program Discord. A large group of like-minded people came together and shared a semi-unified vision of a cryptocurrency that opposes the status quo. Having a large and diverse group of people fueled ideas like pouring kerosene on top of a fire. A swap of an old coin was made, and OHMC was born. What went from an idea birthed into something real, and people started taking volunteering there time to keep the project alive. Ohm has gone through many changes to settle into the original vision that everyone had when it started.
Just as Ohm intends to help engineer a better world through acts of kindness, those principles of giving apply to the organization itself. All of Ohm’s employees are volunteers, giving their time and energy with nothing expected in return. Most of the employees have been rewarded for their kindness by being rewarded Ohm coin, some have been paid in Bitcoin, and some have received nothing at all because they refuse to accept anything in pursuit of our goals. The purpose is to have an organization which reflects the same beliefs we are trying to uphold through the currency and the community we are trying to build. No one person in Ohm is better or greater than another, and in order for the organization to be successful there are some key tenets that must be upheld:
Mutual respect for one another and each other’s domains of expertise and experience, regardless of position. Everyone wants to do their part, but they can’t do everyone else’s too. Put simply, let the artist be the artist and let the marketing person be the marketing person. If the marketing person is trying to market cryptocurrency but doesn’t know the subject, they will have to listen to someone who does and work with them in a respectful manner. One must respect that someone else who is a master of their domain should be responsible for helping others to become masters of theirs and they most avoid common interpersonal pitfalls like throwing sand in each others’ sandboxes. The golden rule still applies, to treat others like you expect to be treated. Failure to uphold this always results in someone leaving an organization who would have otherwise remained. While we never want to lose members due to mistreatment, as a group maintaining an ecosystem, we recognize that people coming and going is to be expected to some extent, and that can be both good and bad.

We are all volunteers to something. Ohm is not keeping lights on or paying bills. One day, we hope that Ohm is valuable enough to allow people to pursue this as their passion full-time and still be able to keep the lights on. However, even as a volunteer a commitment and dependability is needed to be successful. As little as one hour a week is enough as long as you commit to it and can be depended upon to accomplish small tasks. We all volunteer our time to different things in life and it's what we choose to spend our energy towards that determines what type of life we create for ourselves.

There are still going to be people who just want to make money. The lure of cryptocurrency will draw people in who are opportunists and just want to earn some new coins. The hope it is the next Bitcoin and will give them a greater ROI (Return on Investment). While we aspire to be a valued cryptocurrency, it is not the purpose for what we do. Creating an organization almost purely online with virtual presence and remote volunteers all over the world creates challenges in and of itself, aside from managing a company of people or any other organization. As a young organization, Ohm has overcome several of these challenges and realizes there are more to overcome.

The Acts of Kindness Platform:
The Ohm Coin AOK (Acts of Kindness) Platform and Organization is premised on showing the value of acts of kindness. How even the smallest acts can be more valuable than any sum of money as well as rewarding those who give. Using cryptocurrency as a means to promote a token of value while challenging the value of other cryptocurrencies that derive their value purely from digital scarcity, we intend to build a technology platform that is capable of self-sustaining a community of users and followers that want to earn rewards, similar to existing point-based reward systems today. Instead of points, we will reward with cryptocurrency with a goal of having 100% of Ohm coins circulated and owned through verified acts of kindness. In order to circulate the coins, promote the platform for acts of kindness, organize a community, and develop the technological platform, we will have to use existing cryptocurrency exchanges as a means to circulate the currency initially. The AOK Platform is comprised of the technologic components and applications that will be needed to accomplish these goals.
Those that are interested in earning Ohm but may not be the types that perform many acts of kindness without it advancing an objective of their own (service-to-self), may see the acts of kindness they are being asked to perform as a trivial opportunity to earn a new cryptocurrency. In rewarding those who give Ohm coin to a act of kindness, they will be rewarded with increased stake weight (Minting/Transaction Bonus).

Those that are interested in acts of kindness but don’t believe they should be rewarded for them (service-to-others), we want to embrace and pay tribute to by recognizing the positive impact they have on the people they affect. Both types are helping to achieve the objective of spreading kindness into the world, but there is a profound side-effect on those that are purely opportunity seekers mentioned previously. It has been shown that over time, the more the opportunists are exposed to committing acts of kindness and the natural rewards that come with them, start to care less about the money or opportunity for themselves. Instead, they become more like the second group where they become more interested in simply being kind. Cryptocurrency, and its large appeal, provides a path for Ohm to not only make a positive impact in the world by earning it through acts of kindness, but to also influence people who may be less kind or giving, to do more of it once they feel the direct benefits of doing so, even if it has to be incentivized initially. Over time, the Aok Platform could have as significant an impact as Facebook has, but in an entirely different way. As these acts of kindness continue to spread, and people earn more Ohm, the currency will naturally be distributed and instead of the value of the currency being based purely on supply, demand and scarcity, it will be based partially on the value the rest of the world places on acts of kindness. What is a kind act really worth? What would the value be to you if it was something done for your brother, sister, children, husband, wife, mother or father? A kind act, depending on the perceived need, might be something you’d throw five dollars to someone for having helped you, or there might not be enough money to reward how important it is. Would you give someone a few bucks for stopping to help you change a tire? What would you give the same person if they stopped and pulled you out of a burning car that you were tapped in? Both of them are genuine acts of kindness, but how do you determine the difference in value? This is a difficult question to answer. There is, however, a consensus that these types of acts are valuable, and the AoK Platform wants to capture how valuable they are and recognize those individuals as agents for change.

The platform will be composed of several applications, which are segmented as follows:
A node / daemon.
A wallet or set of wallets for different operating systems.
A REST API to communicate with a daemon.
A website for promotion of the wallets and platform.
A website community for submitting, up voting and monetizing (with Ohm) acts of kindness and subscribing to topics of interest.
Mobile applications to participate in the community and submit evidence of acts of kindness.
A REST API to allow mobileapps, gaming engines/platforms, and other more corporate entities to reward positive acts with Ohm.

The purpose of the platform as a whole is the overarching objective, which is to change the world one act of kindness at a time while also supporting the decentralization of the financial world that has concentrated most things of value into the hands of a few. Ohm would be a testament to whether or not people believe in the value of kindness.

The Daemon The daemon is the most essential starting point for the platform. A bitcoin daemon, or in this case an Ohm daemon, operates on the heart of the blockchain. The Ohm blockchain starts with creating a genesis block, and the daemon is responsible for querying and updating that blockchain. It provides a JSON interface using RPC commands, which aren’t web-friendly. It also does not have a user interface other than a command line, which is why the platform also needs an API and a wallet. The API provides a secure interface to communicate with the daemons / nodes, and the wallets provide a graphical user-interface to interact with an internal version of the daemon. The core code that is used for the daemon is also used for the wallets.

The Wallet The wallet is a graphical representation of the daemon. Since the daemon operates off of a copy of the Ohm blockchain, so does the wallet. The wallet creates a copy of the blockchain based on the genesis block and another node or daemon on the Ohm blockchain to someone’s computer or device, and the same code that the daemon would use as a node, is the same code the wallet uses to work on the blockchain. The wallet provides a way for someone interested in holding or exchanging Ohm, to create a private key that secures their identity on the blockchain and allows them to start sending, receiving and minting (staking) Ohm. Their identity is secure based on the private key they used, and anonymous from a blockchain perspective. They could then generate public address to send Ohm to other Ohm owners, or use it to participate on cryptocurrency exchanges. The wallet is a secure way to manage the Ohm cryptocurrency on any device it’s deployed to and a common tool developed and used by all cryptocurrencies.

The REST API In order to interact with a daemon, RPC-JSON structured calls are used. These calls are not made using web-based protocols such as HTTP or HTTPS and are difficult to secure in a manner that doesn’t compromise the daemon and therefore, the blockchain. To accomplish this, a REST API that is JSON based and mirrors the RPC calls is needed as a pass through proxy to the daemon. The API also allows additional security to be implemented using mechanisms such as API keys, public and private key pairs, username and password combinations, OAuth, and other proven security methodologies. This prevents unauthorized access to the daemon and allows there to be an audit trail of what web-based access is used to view and manipulate the blockchain. It also provides a way to separate out which applications are accessing the API and for what purpose, so the API acts as a gateway and helps secure the platform and mitigate risks. This is a critical component to provide services that can be accessed from web and mobile applications and will be central to almost all of the services that the platform is envisioned to provide. Over time, the API can evolve and be extended to support other services that are not blockchain related but are key to delivering value to the other AoK components and objectives.

he Website The main website will be used to establish the presence of Ohm on the web with an overview and explanation of what Ohm and the AoK platform is, along with the goals and objectives of the platform and the organization. It will include a reference to the Ohm blog, which will provide news and updates on Ohm and AoK as well as other relevant cryptocurrency and blockchain news. There will be references to other social media presence for Ohm such as Twitter and Facebook. Any partnerships or strategic alliances with other entities will be listed on the website and there will be links to the other AoK services, such as the Ohm Block Explorer. The goal of the website is to drive interest and participation, and ultimately to have users download a wallet. The wallet is integral to distributing the currency and building a base of users that are interested in investing in Ohm and the AoK platform, so the goal of the website is to drive the interest toward downloading and installing one.

The Community The Ohm and AoK community will be one of the largest drivers of the Platform. It will have strong similarities to Steemit and Reddit in that it will be user-driven and have different voting structures that users take part in. The first voting structure will be acts of kindness suggestions. Users will be able to submit ideas and suggestions for what they believe are acts of kindness that will have a positive change in the world around them. These can be things such as planting a tree where there are none, or planting a vegetable garden, or volunteering at a nursing home. These ideas and suggestions can be upvoted by the community until they reach a designated number of votes before they are considered acceptable acts of kindness. Once established, a second tier of voting takes place on the amount of Ohm that the community feels should be rewarded for the act of kindness. This is subjective at best, and will probably require some degree of moderation to make sure there isn’t a gaming of the system. Over time, as the community grows, these acts will change in value based on the community upvoting and downvoting both the ideas and the rewards, so it becomes self-sustaining, similar to Reddit and Steemit.

Building this platform with an API is critical to its success, so that other AoK applications for mobile devices can be created to allow mobile devices to receive notifications. These notifications would be associated to topics / areas of interest in the community that users are interested in participating in to earn Ohm. For example, planting a tree or a vegetable garden could be considered an outdoor or agriculture-based topic, so users that do a lot of acts in these areas or are interested are most likely to subscribe to notifications in this area. These notifications would be based on when new ideas are approved as acts of kindness and a reward has been established. It would also enable the mobile applications a means to participate in the community directly through their mobile devices. The importance of this is that this allows a way to also earn Ohm without a mobile wallet. The AoK mobile applications would keep track of the Ohm earned through acts of kindness and the community, similar to how Steemit rewards works currently. Anything that earns or pays Ohm for acts of kindness through the mobile applications would create events that get sent to the wallet or daemon API and is transacted separately but associated to one another from a record-keeping perspective. Over time, the community not only represents the acts of kindness that the world finds value in, and how much value for them, but also recognizes all of the acts of kindness that people have done and allows Ohm to quantify that impact on the people and world around us.
